if kings were very successful like
gilgamesh was he almost always started
worrying about death
probably the most successful king of all
time was alexander the great since he
conquered the world or most parts of the
world that he actually knew about
there was a novel about alexander's life
that was extremely popular in the middle
ages probably the single most popular
book in the world
um everywhere from germany to india to
samarkand and malaysia and the stories
are told about alexander's life were in
almost every case stories about things
that he couldn't conquer
for example how he tried to fly to the
heavens um
into heaven itself on a chariot
propelled by griffins
magical birds and it didn't work um how
he tried to make a submarine
and see the bottom of the ocean but that
didn't work either and the biggest story
of all was his attempt to find the
fountain of eternal life in one version
he actually did find it
uh it was in the garden of eden whose
location had been lost but just as he
was about to take a drink an angel
appeared to tell him well you know you
can have this drink and you will live
forever but if you do so
you'll have to stay in the garden
you'll never be able to leave and he
thought about that thought well okay
this is paradise this is incredibly
beautiful and wonderful but
eternity is an awfully long time and
what kind of king would i be if i had to
stay in a garden for the rest of
eternity so he ended up deciding not to
drink the water of eternal life after
all
so if kings couldn't live forever
well at least they'd want to be
remembered forever
kings would try to build the biggest
temple or the biggest library they'd
found cities they changed the course of
rivers they planted the hanging gardens
of babylon for example or or even like
jenga's con or timberlane they would
make towers out of human skulls just so
people would remember that they did it
still
their biggest problem was how to make or
do something so big
so impressive that the next king that
came along maybe their son
would wouldn't be able to do something
even better it was especially difficult
when everyone had to pretend the old
king wasn't dead
this sometimes did happen in ancient
egypt for example
there were gigantic pyramids and the
kings buried under those pyramids
still had their own priests and even
servants telling everyone that they had
become gods and were much more important
than the current king
this was extremely intimidating for the
current king every pharaoh had to worry
well everyone treats me like a god while
i'm still alive everyone treats me like
a god now but
i better they're all secretly asking
themselves whether i'll ever be able to
build a pyramid as big as my dad
at least egyptian mummy stayed inside
the tombs and didn't actually go
wandering about this was not true in
peru
the incas also mummified their dead
kings who were called incas
um
but then they acted as if they weren't
actually dead
well the way it worked was like this
when the king died his eldest son became
the new anchor but he didn't inherit
much he didn't inherit the palace he
didn't inherit the royal lands he didn't
even inherit the king's servants
all of those continued to belong to the
dead king and was managed by all the
other children of the old inca who
didn't become income
um
he just got the army so they used to
bring the mummy out
surrounded
you know by his servants carried around
like a live king who would attend
important events and the dead king might
visit friends like um take part in games
and ceremonies even host parties
the new kinka inca only in heart of the
army and he was expected to go off and
conquer new lands that he could use to
support his own palace and servants and
until he died and became a mummy and
then his son had to do the same thing
that's why the incam fire grew so
quickly it was thousands of miles long
uh
and it meant that the inca capital cusco
was a really odd city because
all the most important people in cusco
were dead
it also meant that each new king felt he
had to do something extremely big and
important in order to impress all the
dead ancestors who were still actually
wandering around